History of Present Illness
This is the first admission for this 56 year old woman,
who states she was in her usual state of good health until one week prior to admission. At that time she noticed the abrupt onset (over a few seconds to a minute) of chest pain which she describes as dull and aching in character. The pain began in the left para-sternal area and radiated up to her neck. The first episode of pain one week ago occurred when she was working in her garden in the middle of the day. She states she had been working for approximately 45 minutes and began to feel tired before the onset of the pain. Her discomfort was accompanied by shortness of breath, but no sweating, nausea, or vomiting. The pain lasted approximately 5 to 10 minutes and resolved when she went inside and rested in a cool area.
Since that initial pain one week ago she has had 2 additional episodes of pain, similar in quality and location to the first episode. Three days ago she had a 15 minute episode of pain while walking her dog, which resolved with rest. This evening she had an episode of pain awaken her from sleep, lasting 30 minutes, which prompted her visit to the Emergency Department. At no time has she attempted any specific measures to relieve her pain, other than rest. She describes no other associated symptoms during these episodes of pain, including dizziness, or palpitations. She becomes short of breath during these
episodes but describes no other exertional dyspnea,
orthopnea, or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. No change in the pain with movement, no association with food, no GERD sx, no palpable pain. She has never been told she has heart problems, never had any
chest pains before, does not have claudication. She was diagnosed with HTN 3 years ago,
She does not smoke nor does she have diabetes.
She was diagnosed with hypertension 3 years ago and had a TAH with BSO 6 years ago. She is not on hormone replacement therapy. There is a family history of premature CAD.
She does not know her cholesterol level.
